Issue #860 identifier scoping documentation (#941)
usnistgov/OSCAL: docs/content/concepts/identifier-use/_index.md

---
title: Identifier Use
description: Provides details on the scope an duniqueness of dientifiers used within the OSCAL models.
suppresstopiclist: true
weight: 50
toc:
  enabled: true
sidenav:
  focusrenderdepth: 2
  activerenderdepth: 2
  inactiverenderdepth: 2
---

This page reviews important concepts to be aware of when declaring or referencing identifiers in OSCAL models, with in-depth explanations of identifier uniqueness and scope.  

### **Identifier Type** 
By design, OSCAL supports [*machine-oriented*](/concepts/identifier-use/#machine-oriented) and [*human-oriented*](/concepts/identifier-use/#human-oriented) identifiers. The OSCAL models dictate which are used for different data items.

#### Machine-Oriented

> *Machine-oriented* identifiers are implemented as Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) as defined by [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122) and are commonly used to (programmatically) identify or refer to unique information within OSCAL models.  Because OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* identifiers utilize UUID data types, they can be issued without a central authority, and used across OSCAL instances with low risk of identifier collisions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Machine-oriented* identifiers provide a persistent identity for an entity within OSCAL the OSCAL models, which can be used in other locations within related OSCAL models to reference the associated entity. 

These identifiers are intended to be auto-generated by tools when the entity is initially created. In OSCAL, a machine-oriented identifier is implemented using a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) as defined by [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). UUIDs were chosen because:

- Programming interfaces exist in most programming environments to generate a UUID
- UUIDs can be issued without a central authority
- UUIDs are represented in 128bits, providing for a large address space with low risk of identifier collisions for randomly generated values
```

> > **NOTE**: While UUIDs are used as machine-oriented identifiers catering to use cases where automated processing is desired, they are not ideal for wildcard matching scenarios.  UUIDs should only be used when exact matches are expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The opaque nature of UUIDs, which consist of a series of hexadecimal characters, makes them less than ideal for wildcard matching scenarios.  Thus, their use in OSCAL is intended for identification only where an exact match is required. Where wildcard matching is needed, the other data elements associated with the entity should be evaluated for a match instead. 
```

> The [OSCAL Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@uuid) provides a complete listing of UUIDs in OSCAL.  References to these identifiers typically follow a naming convention of the object type followed by “-uuid”.  For example, see the reference index for [location-uuid](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/location-uuid).

Reviewer: This is a link to the XML index. The JSON index should be referenced as well.

Author: added JSON index.  Will be in next commit.

Author: valid point.  Updating locally and will include with my next commit

Reviewer 2: This will get crowded with brad's recommendation. It seems we single space between sentences and there is an additional space at "followed by “-uuid”.  For example," between the period and for. I noticed this when re-reading locally.

#### Human-Oriented

> OSCAL generally implements *`human-oriented`* identifiers as Token data types, which are non-colonized names (add link to data type).  These *`human-oriented`* identifiers have the benefit of allowing authors to incorporate semantics that support readability and processing by humans.  For example, control identifiers in a catalog may use a nomenclature that is familiar to the intended audience, allowing them to quickly determine what security control is being referred to, simply by its ID.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OSCAL generally implements *`human-oriented`* identifiers as Token data types, which are non-colonized names (add link to data type).  These *`human-oriented`* identifiers have the benefit of allowing authors to incorporate semantics that support readability and processing by humans.  For example, control identifiers in a catalog may use a nomenclature that is familiar to the intended audience, allowing them to quickly determine what security control is being referred to, simply by its identifier value.  
```

> OSCAL generally implements *`human-oriented`* identifiers as Token data types, which are non-colonized names (add link to data type).  These *`human-oriented`* identifiers have the benefit of allowing authors to incorporate semantics that support readability and processing by humans.  For example, control identifiers in a catalog may use a nomenclature that is familiar to the intended audience, allowing them to quickly determine what security control is being referred to, simply by its ID.  

Author: Added link. will be in next commit

> OSCAL generally implements *`human-oriented`* identifiers as Token data types, which are non-colonized names (add link to data type).  These *`human-oriented`* identifiers have the benefit of allowing authors to incorporate semantics that support readability and processing by humans.  For example, control identifiers in a catalog may use a nomenclature that is familiar to the intended audience, allowing them to quickly determine what security control is being referred to, simply by its ID.  

Reviewer 2: OK, I moved the larger discussion into usnistgov/OSCAL#1105.

As for the content here, my recommendation below: OSCAL generally provides the token data to enable *`human-oriented`* identifiers.  These *`human-oriented`* identifiers ..."

> The [OSCAL Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@id) provides a comprehensive listing of the *`human-oriented`* IDs in OSCAL.  References to these IDs are typically named according to the referenced object type (e.g., control) followed by “-id”, as seen here in the [Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@control-id).

Reviewer: Need both XML and JSON references here.

Author: will update in next commit

### **Uniqueness** 

> OSCAL identifier uniqueness are categorized as *`locally-unique`* or *`globally-unique`*.  As implied by the category name, *`locally-unique`* identifiers must be unique within the current document whereas *`globally-unique`* identifiers are guaranteed to be unique across all other identifiers.  OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* UUID identifiers are always *`globally-unique`*.  *`Human-oriented`* identifiers must be defined and managed organizationally and are more susceptible to identifier duplication or collisions. Thus, *`human-oriented`* identifiers are less likely to be *`globally-unique`*.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OSCAL identifier uniqueness is categorized as *`locally-unique`* or *`globally-unique`*.  As implied by the category name, *`locally-unique`* identifiers must be unique within the current document, whereas *`globally-unique`* identifiers are guaranteed to be unique across all other identifiers.  OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* UUID identifiers are always *`globally-unique`*.  *`Human-oriented`* identifiers must be defined and managed organizationally and are more susceptible to identifier duplication or collisions. Thus, *`human-oriented`* identifiers are less likely or cannot be gauranteed to be *`globally-unique`*.  
```

> OSCAL identifier uniqueness are categorized as *`locally-unique`* or *`globally-unique`*.  As implied by the category name, *`locally-unique`* identifiers must be unique within the current document whereas *`globally-unique`* identifiers are guaranteed to be unique across all other identifiers.  OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* UUID identifiers are always *`globally-unique`*.  *`Human-oriented`* identifiers must be defined and managed organizationally and are more susceptible to identifier duplication or collisions. Thus, *`human-oriented`* identifiers are less likely to be *`globally-unique`*.  

Reviewer 2: I agree per you review of my review. I meant more in the aspirational view that they should not be reused intentionally by developers unless in clear case; UUIDs are presumed to not be reusable. In a previous part of my review, I thought somewhere here, I added [a link to the explanation of how UUIDs should be used for this reason](https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/concepts/layer/overview/#use-of-version-4-uuids).

I guess your point stands, maybe it is better not to muddy the waters! I'll resolve this one for now.

> OSCAL identifier uniqueness are categorized as *`locally-unique`* or *`globally-unique`*.  As implied by the category name, *`locally-unique`* identifiers must be unique within the current document whereas *`globally-unique`* identifiers are guaranteed to be unique across all other identifiers.  OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* UUID identifiers are always *`globally-unique`*.  *`Human-oriented`* identifiers must be defined and managed organizationally and are more susceptible to identifier duplication or collisions. Thus, *`human-oriented`* identifiers are less likely to be *`globally-unique`*.  

Author: we'll create a follow on issue for this item

These identifiers are intended to be auto-generated by tools when the entity is initially created. In OSCAL, a machine-oriented identifier is implemented using a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) as defined by [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). A UUID is represented in OSCAL using the UUID datatype (provide link).

UUIDs were chosen because:

- Programming interfaces exist in most programming environments to generate a UUID
- UUIDs can be issued without a central authority
- UUIDs are represented in 128bits, providing for a large address space with low risk of identifier collisions for randomly generated values

The opaque nature of UUIDs, which consist of a series of hexadecimal characters, makes them less than ideal for wildcard matching scenarios.  Thus, their use in OSCAL is intended for identification only where an exact match is required. Where wildcard matching is needed, the other data elements associated with the entity should be evaluated for a match instead. 

> 

Author: Removed the extra line locally.  willl include in next commit

The [OSCAL Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@uuid) provides a complete listing of UUIDs in OSCAL.  References to these identifiers typically follow a naming convention of the object type followed by “-uuid”.  For example, see the reference index for [location-uuid](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/location-uuid).

#### Human-Oriented

> A *`human-oriented`* identifier incorporates semantics that support readability and processing by humans. OSCAL implements *`human-oriented`* identifiers as Token data types, which are non-colonized names (add link to data type). For example, control identifiers in a catalog may use a nomenclature that is familiar to the intended audience, allowing them to quickly determine what security control is being referred to, simply by its identifier value.  

Reviewer 2: In some places we say it is a "token" data type and other places we capitalize and say a "Token" data type. We should be consistent, I am not sure what the team has agreed upon.

Reviewer 2: Dave said we should keep them lower case. This still might need to be fixed, @Rene2mt.

The [OSCAL Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@id) provides a comprehensive listing of the *`human-oriented`* IDs in OSCAL.  References to these IDs are typically named according to the referenced object type (e.g., control) followed by “-id”, as seen here in the [Reference Index](/reference/latest/complete/xml-index/#/@control-id).

### **Uniqueness** 
OSCAL identifier uniqueness are categorized as *`locally-unique`* or *`globally-unique`*.  As implied by the category name, *`locally-unique`* identifiers must be unique within the current document whereas *`globally-unique`* identifiers are guaranteed to be unique across all other identifiers.  OSCAL’s *`machine-oriented`* UUID identifiers are always *`globally-unique`*.  *`Human-oriented`* identifiers must be defined and managed organizationally and are more susceptible to identifier duplication or collisions. Thus, *`human-oriented`* identifiers are less likely to be *`globally-unique`*.  

### **Scope** 

> Identifiers are declared so that data items in OSCAL instances can be referenced accurately and consistently.  In the most basic instance, references are made to data items in the same OSCAL instance, but because OSCAL supports instance importing, there are scenarios where data items in an external / imported OSCAL instance need to be referenced as well.  Identifiers that are only intended for use within the same OSCAL instance are categorized as *`instance`* scope, but identifiers that can be referenced (from other OSCAL instances) are considered *`cross-instance`* scoped. While *`human-oriented`* identifiers might not be globally unique, they may be *`cross-instance`* scoped.  In these cases, the appropriate import attribute (e.g. import, import-component-definitions, import-profile, import-ssp, and import-ap) should be used (similar to a namespacing) to deconflict identifiers with the same values in the associated OSCAL instances.  This would allow for the same control IDs to be used and referenced in a profile and its imported catalog(s) for example.  The tables below provides a summary of OSCAL unique identifier scoping.

Author: I reworked the scope section quite a bit locally, adding an svg diagram illustrating the relationship between OSCAL instances.  Links to import types would be useful...I'll go ahead and add them as well.

#### **Catalog Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in a catalog may be referenced locally or from an importing profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in a catalog may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

> |**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|

Reviewer 2: General feedback on the headers, we might want to consider saying, like in this catalog example:

```suggestion
|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Self**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
```

or

```suggestion
|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog (Self)**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
```

Either that, or we mean "this document instance, but other catalogs can cross-reference each other!" but I am not sure 1) what is possible for each of the document instances and 2) if we want to muddy the waters and bring that up. Does that make sense?

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|Catalog|Location uuid|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Party uuid|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Role id|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Resource uuid|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Property uuid|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Document Identifier scheme|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Part id|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Param id|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Catalog uuid|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Control id|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||
|Catalog|Group id|&#9745;|&#9745;||||||

#### **Profile Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in a profile may be referenced locally or from an importing profile or SSP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in a profile may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|Profile|Location uuid||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Party uuid||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Role id||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Resource uuid||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Property uuid||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Document Identifier scheme||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Part id||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Param id||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Profile uuid||&#9745;||&#9745;||||
|Profile|Group id||&#9745;||&#9745;||||

#### **Component Definition Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in a component definition may be referenced locally or from an importing component definition instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in a component definition may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|Component Definition|Location uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Party uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Role id|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Resource uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Property uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Document Identifier scheme|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Part id|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Param id|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Component Definition uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Component uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Capability uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Control Implementation Set uuid|||&#9745;|||||
|Component Definition|Control Implementation uuid|||&#9745;|||||

#### **SSP Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in an SSP may be referenced locally or from an importing AP or POA&M.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in an SSP may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|SSP|Location uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Party uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Role id||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Resource uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Property uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Document Identifier scheme||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Part id||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Param id||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|SSP uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Information Type uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Information Type Systematized id||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Diagram uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Leveraged Authorization uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Control Requirement uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|By-Component uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Provided uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Responsibility uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Inherited uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|
|SSP|Satisfied uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||&#9745;|

#### **AP Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in an AP may be referenced locally or from an importing AR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in an AP may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|**Defining Model**|**Identifier**|**Catalog**|**Profile**|**Component**|**SSP**|**AP**|**AR**|**POA&M**|
|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|AP|Location uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Party uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Role id|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Resource uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Property uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Document Identifier scheme|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Assessment Method uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Assessment Activity uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Step uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Task uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Assessment Subject Placeholder uuid||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Assessment Platform uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Observation uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Risk uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Mitigating Factor uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Implementation uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Risk Log Entry uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Remediation uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Required Asset uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Part uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||
|AP|Assessment Plan uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;||

#### **AR Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in an AR may be referenced locally or from an importing POA&M.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in an AR may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

|:------|:-------|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
|AR|Location uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Party uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Role id||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Resource uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Property uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Document Identifier scheme||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Method uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Activity uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Step uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Task uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Subject Placeholder uuid|||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Platform uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Observation uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Risk uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Mitigating Factor uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Implementation uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Risk Log Entry uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Remediation uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Required Asset uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Part uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Results uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Result uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Assessment Log Entry uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|
|AR|Finding uuid||||||&#9745;|&#9745;|

#### **POA&M Identifiers**

> Identifiers defined in a POA&M may be referenced locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identifiers defined in a POA&M may be referenced locally or other OSCAL document instances of different models. For a given identifier in a row, columns with a &#9745; indicate possible locations for cross-referencing.
```

Reviewer 2: This is obsolete now.

#### Machine-Oriented

*Machine-oriented* identifiers provide a persistent identity for an entity within the OSCAL models, which can be used in other locations within related OSCAL models to reference the associated entity. 

> These identifiers are intended to be auto-generated by tools when the entity is initially created. In OSCAL, a machine-oriented identifier is implemented using a Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) as defined by [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122). A UUID is represented in OSCAL using the UUID datatype (provide link).

Author: Agreed.  I'll add link to UUID data type with next commit
